You can generate images using the Gemini API with either Gemini's built-in multimodal capabilities or Imagen, Google's specialized image generation models. For most use cases, start with Gemini. Choose Imagen for specialized tasks where image quality is critical. See Choosing the right model section for more guidance.

All generated images include a SynthID watermark.

Before you begin
Ensure you use a supported model and version for image generation:

For Gemini, use Gemini 2.0 Flash Preview Image Generation.

For Imagen, use one of the Imagen models (Imagen 3, Imagen 4 or Imagen 4 Ultra).

Note that those models are only available on the Paid tier.
You can access both Gemini and Imagen models using the same libraries.

Note: Image generation may not be available in all regions and countries, review our Models page for more information.
Generate images using Gemini
Gemini can generate and process images conversationally. You can prompt Gemini with text, images, or a combination of both to achieve various image-related tasks, such as image generation and editing.

You must include responseModalities: ["TEXT", "IMAGE"] in your configuration. Image-only output is not supported with these models.

Image generation (text-to-image)
The following code demonstrates how to generate an image based on a descriptive prompt:

Python
JavaScript
Go
REST

from google import genai
from google.genai import types
from PIL import Image
from io import BytesIO
import base64

client = genai.Client()

contents = ('Hi, can you create a 3d rendered image of a pig '
            'with wings and a top hat flying over a happy '
            'futuristic scifi city with lots of greenery?')

response = client.models.generate_content(
    model="gemini-2.0-flash-preview-image-generation",
    contents=contents,
    config=types.GenerateContentConfig(
      response_modalities=['TEXT', 'IMAGE']
    )
)

for part in response.candidates[0].content.parts:
  if part.text is not None:
    print(part.text)
  elif part.inline_data is not None:
    image = Image.open(BytesIO((part.inline_data.data)))
    image.save('gemini-native-image.png')
    image.show()